You used several methods to separate and identify the substances in mock rocks. How did you separate the salt from the water
You used several methods to separate and identify the substances in mock rocks. How did you know the crystals were salt
Ms. Teridann, a geologist, made a chart showing the scratch-test data for 3 minerals (Mineral X, Mineral Y, and Mineral Z). She wrote "yes" if the tool scratched the mineral and wrote "no" if it did not scratch it. Topaz is a mineral that cannot be scratched by a fingernail, a penny, or a paperclip. How hard is topaz compared to minerals X, Y, and Z? Explain how you know
Georgia found one brown mineral and one black mineral. How can she test them for hardness using only the 2 minerals (no tools)
Georgia found one brown mineral and one black mineral. How will she know which one is harder
If Phil, a geologist, wants to test for calcite while in the field, what should he bring with him? (an acid such as vinegar). Describe what Phil should do to test for calcite and what he would observe
Describe how you can tell the difference between the crystals from the calcite test and salt crystals when you observe them in an evaporation dish.
Emily evaporated a solution and drew a picture of the crystals that remained. Using the crystal-shape key below, what was dissolved in the solution? A. Epsom salt (B. alum) C. sodium thiosulfate. Explain why you chose that answer.
Salt crystals form when the water evaporates from saltwater. Describe the salt crystals
You can tell if a rock contains calcite by putting it into a cold acid (like vinegar). Describe what you would observe if you did the acid test on a rock that contains this substance.
Carrie wanted to find out which was harder, a penny or a nickel, so she did a scratch test. How would this tell her which is harder?
The sand and flour in the gray material from mock rocks is separated by mixing with water and allowing the mixture to settle. Explain why the sand and flour separate.
Alice planted one radish seed in each of 5 separate pots (Pot one, Pot 2, Pot 3, Pot 4 and Pot 5). She used the same amount and the same kind of soil in each pot. She put them by the same window. The first graph shows the amount of water she put into each pot every day (Pot one got 5 milliliters, Pot 2 got 10 milliliters, Pot 3 got 15 milliliters, Pot 4 got 20 milliliters, and Pot 5 got 25 milliliters). The second graph shows the length of each root after 7 days (0 centimeters for Pot one, 4 centimeters for Pot 2, 8 centimeters for Pot 3, 5 centimeters for Pot 4, and 0 centimeters for Pot 5). What is the range of tolerance for water for these radish seeds? Explain how you decided the range of tolerance.
John wanted to find the optimum conditions for growing peas. He planted pea seeds in 2 separate pots. He used the same amount and type of soil in each pot. He recorded daily care (amount of water and plant food) and results (plant length and number of leaves) after 2 weeks, as shown in the following chart. Did John do a good job of controlling the variables in his experiment? Explain why or why not.
Rachael tried to hatch brine shrimp under a range of salty conditions (different amounts of salt from 0 to 9 milliliters in the same amount of water). (The graph shows that no eggs hatched in the 0 milliliters and 9 milliliters salt solutions). Rachael thinks that the unhatched brine shrimp eggs in environments outside the range of tolerance for salt might still be viable. Describe how she could find out.
Ms. Larson's class found the best condition to hatch brine-shrimp eggs: 2 spoons of salt in 200 milliliters of water. The class decided to hatch more eggs. Ms. Larson mixed a new solution using 2 spoons of salt in 200 milliliters of water. Later, she discovered she had used a slightly different size spoon to measure the salt. Even with this different solution, some eggs still hatched. Why did some eggs still hatch?
What is the relationship between an organism's range of tolerance and its optimum condition?
The mangrove is a tree found only in saltwater environments. What would happen if you moved a mangrove tree to a freshwater environment? Explain your answer.
Andrew wanted to find the optimum conditions for his chickens to lay eggs. He divided his 20 chickens into 2 groups, X and Y, and recorded their daily care (amount of chicken feed and calcium) and egg production for 2 weeks. Did Andrew do a good job of controlling the variables in his experiment? Explain why or why not.
Anna wants to compare the fat in walnuts and peanuts, but she isn't sure how. Write a procedure Anna can use to compare the fat in walnuts and peanuts.
Anna wants to compare the fat in walnuts and peanuts. Using only the results from her experiment, how will Anna know which one, walnuts or peanuts, has more fat? The experiment has the following procedure: Measure out equal masses of walnuts and peanuts (for example, one gram). Smash the samples uniformly in the same size area on brown paper. Wait (the same time for each).
Susan has samples of 5 different foods. Using only the results of her experiment, how will Susan know which food contains the most sugar?
Diva's father told her she should not eat so many cookies because they were pure sugar. Diva decided to investigate the amount of sugar in Fruity Cream cookies. She performed the sugar test on 4 grams of pure sugar and on 4 grams of Fruity Cream cookies. The results are pictured at the right. Are Fruity Cream cookies pure sugar? What is your evidence?</
Diva's father told her she should not eat so many cookies because they were pure sugar. Diva decided to investigate the amount of sugar in Fruity Cream cookies. She performed the sugar test on 4 grams of pure sugar and on 4 grams of Fruity Cream cookies. The results are pictured at the right. Why did Diva need to test pure sugar?
Paula wants to test a food to see if it contains acid and/or sugar. When Paula added water and yeast to a sample of the food and put the mixture in a warm water bath, the mixture began to fizz and bubble. What does this chemical reaction indicate?
Paula wants to test a food to see if it contains acid and/or sugar. When Paula added water and yeast to a sample of the food and put the mixture in a warm water bath, the mixture began to fizz and bubble. Paula tested for the other substance. What would the test results tell her?
Jana and Emily used indophenol to test 3 beverages for vitamin C. The number of drops they added to make a 10 milliliter sample of the blue indophenol indicator become colorless are given here: 8 drops of Overly Orange 13 drops of Luscious Lemon 33 drops of Fruitsnap (and it still didn't change color). Does Overly Orange or Luscious Lemon contain a higher concentration of vitamin C? What is the evidence?
Why are leg bones so large compared to other bones in the human body?
Look at the picture of a cow bone. Describe how you can tell which part of the cow this bone came from.
Look at the picture of a cow bone. What is the function of this type of bone?
Throwing a ball uses a hinge joint and a ball-and-socket joint. Describe how each of these 2 joints moves when you throw a ball. The hinge joint ___.
Throwing a ball uses a hinge joint and a ball-and-socket joint. Describe how each of these 2 joints moves when you throw a ball. The ball-and-socket joint ___.
What is it about the human skeleton that allows it to bend?
What is the main job of muscles in the body?
Look at the tables for Aisha. She moved each of her hands out of the way of a falling cup. She continued until she reached 5 hits or 5 misses and then stopped. What is the stimulus in this activity?
During class Corey used the falling cup tool to check how fast he could move his hands and feet. Corey found that he couldn't move his right foot as fast as he could move his right hand. Use what you know about stimulus response time to explain why his right hand is faster than his right foot.
Look at the finger patterns below, then answer the questions. What is the same about the finger patterns
Look at the rubbings of 2 different fabrics. What do the rubbings tell us about the different textures of these 2 fabrics
Look at the finger patterns below, then answer the questions. What is different about the finger patterns
Design a way to use carbon printing to find out if 2 Labrador retrievers have the same paw patterns. How will you know if the 2 dogs have paw patterns that are the same
When Sarah did the chromatography test, she saw that one black ink stayed black and didn't separate. She discovered that she had used a permanent marker. She wondered what would happen if she used a different liquid. She wrote in her science notebook, What if I used vinegar in place of the water? Can I get the pigments in permanent ink to separate? How will Sarah know if vinegar separated the permanent ink?
Describe what you would see if a mirror were placed along a line of symmetry on a flat object
Don wants to make a map of his neighborhood that fits into his notebook. He has a photograph of the neighborhood but it is too large. Complete the description of how Don can draw an accurate map that fits into his notebook: 1. Put an overlay grid over the model. 2. ____ 3. Draw a smaller grid with the same number of squares in your notebook. 4. ____ 5. Create a key to go with the map.
What process forms deltas? A. Gravity B. Erosion (C. Deposition) D. Decomposition. Explain how deltas form
Below is a drawing of a river that carried sand, clay, and pebbles (past the river's mouth) to a lake. Why is the clay deposited where you indicated
Draw an arrow to show which direction the water flows in the river. (Rose Mountain is on the left and Happy Valley is on the right in the drawing.) Why do you think the water flows in that direction
How does the water flow in a creek during a flood compared to normal water flow?
Use the slope and no slope stream-table maps and logs on the facing page to answer these questions. What information do you get from the stream-table logs that you do not get from the stream-table maps?
Pam and her family were planning a hike. Pam found 2 maps of the same area. Her friend recommended she use the topographic map when they went to the lake. Why would Pam's friend recommend using the topographic map for the hike?
Pam and her family were planning a hike. Pam found 2 maps of the same area. Her friend recommended she use the topographic map when they went to the lake. Which letter (Q, R, or S) on the map is on the steepest part of the trail? (Q) How do you know it is the steepest part of the trail?
What happens to earth materials during deposition?
The change in elevation between contour line A and contour line B is 20 meters. What is the change in elevation between contour line A and contour line C? How do you know that is the change in elevation between A and C?
Mark an X next to each of the following that can cause more erosion in a streamtable experiment. (Use a water source with a bigger hole.) Use a water source with a smaller hole. Make the slope flatter. (Make the slope steeper.) Explain why your choices cause more erosion.
What is the relationship between the amount of effort required to lift the load and its distance from the fulcrum?
Look at the illustration of the pulley system at the right to answer the questions. What additional disadvantages might there be to this system compared to a single fixed pulley system?
Anne is investigating which objects stick to magnets. She recorded this in her notebook. I was surprised! A nail was stuck to the magnet. When I accidentally touched the nail to a paperclip, the paperclip stuck to the nail. If Anne touched the nail to a brass ring, what do you think would happen and why?
Gerry used a paper filter to separate a mixture of sand, salt, and water. Think about particle size and answer this question: Why did the salt go through the filter while the sand got caught
A solution is a type of mixture. What makes it different from other mixtures
How do you know when a solid and a liquid form a solution?
Emily put 20 milliliters of a mystery solution in an evaporation dish. When all the water was gone, she drew the picture of the dish you see here. Using the crystal-shape key below, what chemical do you think was dissolved in the solution? A. Epsom salt B. Sodium thiosulfate (C. Alum) D. None of the above. Explain why you chose that answer
Joanne mixed material R and material D together, added water, and stirred. After a few minutes, the liquid was clear and there was a solid on the bottom of the cup. Joanne used a paper filter to separate the solid from the liquid. Why does the solid stay in the filter when the liquid goes through
Mariella made a saturated solution by adding a solid to 100 milliliters water. Richard made a saturated solution by adding the same solid to 250 milliliters water. Do the 2 saturated solutions have the same concentration? Explain your answer
Nigel made solutions in the bottles as shown below. Solution A was 2 spoons solute in 50 milliliters water and was clear with no material on the bottom. Solution B was 4 spoons solute in 100 milliliters water and was clear with no material on the bottom. Nigel took 50 milliliters of solution from bottle A and put it in cup A and 50 milliliters of solution from bottle B and put it into cup B. He put the cups on each side of the balance. Which picture shows what would happen? A is heavier than B, B is heavier than A, (A and B are the same weight). Explain your choice
Tabby made 2 solutions using the same solute and water. [Cup one has 6 spoons solute in 50 milliliters water. Cup 2 has 8 spoons solute in 50 milliliters water. Both solutions are clear with material on the bottom.] Which sentence below describes the concentrations of the 2 solutions? (A. The solutions in the cups have the same concentration.) B. Cup one has the more concentrated solution. C. Cup 2 has the more concentrated solution. D. There is not enough information to answer the question. Explain your choice
Jorge added solid material to a container of clear colorless liquid. The mixture began to bubble. Explain why Jorge knew a chemical reaction occurred
A solution of water and material A is clear. A solution of water and material B is also clear. When the 2 solutions are mixed, a white solid settles to the bottom, leaving a clear liquid. What does the white solid indicate?
When Amy added water to a mixture of baking soda and citric acid, the mixture began fizzing. Amy concluded there was a chemical reaction because it fizzed. Why is fizzing evidence of a chemical reaction?
Grace set up a science experiment. Here's what she wrote in her notebook. First I put eggshells into a cup and covered them with vinegar. After a while, small bubbles appeared on the surface of the eggshells. The next day there were more bubbles. In a couple of days, the eggshells were gone and the liquid was clear. I think I made a solution and a reaction. Explain why Grace thinks she made a solution.
Grace set up a science experiment. Here's what she wrote in her notebook. First I put eggshells into a cup and covered them with vinegar. After a while, small bubbles appeared on the surface of the eggshells. The next day there were more bubbles. In a couple of days, the eggshells were gone and the liquid was clear. I think I made a solution and a reaction. Explain why Grace thinks she made a reaction.
Janet found the solubility of silver chloride to be 86 grams in 50 milliliters of water. Mike found the solubility of silver nitrate to be 108 grams in 50 milliliters of water. Janet and Mike thought they must have made a mistake. They thought the solubilities of all materials in water should be the same. Is it possible that both solubilities are correct? Explain your answer.
Jim used a solid and water to make Mixture one (one spoon of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with nothing on the bottom), Mixture 3 (3 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with nothing on the bottom), Mixture 4 (4 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with material on the bottom), and Mixture 5 (5 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with material on the bottom) as shown below. He stirred each one and observed the results. What evidence does Jim have that the solid and water make a solution?
Jim used a solid and water to make Mixtures one (one spoon of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with nothing on the bottom), 3 (3 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with nothing on the bottom), 4 (4 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with material on the bottom), and 5 (5 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with material on the bottom) as shown below. He stirred each one and observed the results. Is the concentration of Mixture 5 less than, greater than, or the same as the concentration of Mixture 4? Explain your answer
Jim used a solid and water to make Mixtures one (one spoon of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with nothing on the bottom), 3 (3 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with nothing on the bottom), 4 (4 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with material on the bottom), and 5 (5 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with material on the bottom) as shown below. He stirred each one and observed the results. Describe how Jim could separate the dissolved solid from the water in Mixture one. What happens to the solid and to the water?
Jim used a solid and water to make Mixtures one (one spoon of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with nothing on the bottom), 3 (3 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with nothing on the bottom), 4 (4 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with material on the bottom), and 5 (5 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters water was clear with material on the bottom) as shown below. He stirred each one and observed the results. If Jim made Mixture 2 with 2 spoons of solid in 100 milliliters of water, what would he observe? What evidence do you have to support this?
Beth made 2 solutions of different concentrations of water and citric acid. She put 50 milliliters of the first solution in cup X and 50 milliliters of the second solution in cup Y. When she put the cups on the balance, the balance looked as shown below. Which solution, X or Y, is more concentrated? Explain how you know which is more concentrated.
Adam's friend gave him a cup filled with a water solution. Adam did not know what solid material was used to make it. He evaporated the solution and found crystals in the dish after all of the water was gone. How will the crystals help him decide what solid material was used to make the solution