The water was evaporated, leaving the salt
The crystals were square with Xs on the surface.
Topaz would be the hardest of the 4 minerals because none of the tools could scratch topaz and at least one tool could scratch each of the other minerals
Rub the minerals together and see which one scratches the other.
The harder mineral will leave a scratch on the less hard mineral. If the black mineral is harder, the brown mineral will have a scratch.
Put acid on a rock. If the acid fizzes, Phil would know that the rock has calcite.
The crystals have different shapes. Salt crystals are square with little Xs. The calcite crystals are shaped like needles (long and skinny).
The crystals are the same shape as the alum crystals.
The salt crystals are squares with Xs on top
Many tiny bubbles will rise from the calcite when the calcite contacts the cold acid.
The harder coin will scratch the other.
The sand particles are larger and settle first. The flour particles are smaller and therefore settle more slowly.
10 milliliters to 20 milliliters. The radishes did not grow at all in pots one and 5 so the range of tolerance is for pots 2, 3 and 4, which got 10 to 20 milliliters of water.
No. John changed 2 variables at the same time (amount of water and amount of plant food) so John can not know which variables made a difference.
Rachael could put the unhatched eggs in a salt solution that is within the range of tolerance.
The different salt solution is within the range of tolerance for brine shrimp eggs to hatch.
The optimum condition is within the range of tolerance.
The mangrove tree would probably die or the tree would not grow well because the tree needs a saltwater environment. Water without salt is outside of the tree's range of tolerance for salt.
No. Andrew changed 2 variables at the same time (amount of chicken feed and the amount of calcium) so Andrew can not know which variables made a difference.
Measure out equal masses of walnuts and peanuts. Smash the samples uniformly in the same size area on brown paper. Wait the same time for each sample.
Anna should compare the size of the grease spots. The sample with the larger grease spot has more fat.
Susan should compare the amount of gas in each bag. The bag with the most gas contains the food with the most sugar.
No, Fruity cream cookies are not pure sugar. The cookies did not produce as much gas as was produced by the pure sugar.
Diva needs to know how much gas pure sugar produced in order to decide whether the cookies are pure sugar. Diva needs to make a controlled experiment.
The food contains sugar.
If gas (carbon dioxide) is produced, the food contains acid. If no gas is produced, the food does not contain acid.
Overly Orange takes fewer drops to change the color of indophenol so Overly Orange has a higher concentration of vitamin C.
The leg bones need to be large because the leg bones carry a lot of weight.
The bone is thin and curved.
The rib bones form a cage to protect the internal organs.
moves back-and-forth.
rotates. moves in all directions. moves up-and-down, back-and-forth, and side-to-side.
The human skeleton can bend because the skeleton is articulated (has joints).
The main job of muscles is to move bones.
The stimulus is seeing or hearing the cup fall.
The right hand is faster than the right foot because the foot is farther from the brain. Therefore the message to respond takes longer to reach the foot than the message takes to reach the hand.
Both finger patterns are loops
Fabric A is smoother and has a finer texture. Fabric B is rougher and has a coarser texture.
The loops begin at opposite sides of the print
Compare prints to see if the patterns are the same
Seeing multiple colors would show that vinegar can separate the permanent ink
The mirror would complete the image of the object and make the object appear whole.
2: Trace the features from the photograph onto the overlay grid. 4: Transfer the features to the matching squares on the smaller grid in your notebook
Earth materials erode and are carried by flowing water (a river). The earth materials form a delta when the materials are dropped off or deposited when the water stops flowing (at the mouth of a river).
The clay particles are lighter or smaller and are therefore carried farther by the water, so the clay particles end up the greatest distance away from the mouth of the river.
Water will always flow downhill (mountain to valley)
During a flood there is more water in the creek and the water flows faster
You can see how much time is taken for the earth materials to move.
She recommended the topographic map because the map shows the elevations along the trail. Pam would know where the trail was the steepest.
The contour lines are closest together at Q.
Earth materials settle out during deposition.
40 meters. The change in elevation is 20 meters between A and B and 20 meters between B and C. So the change between A and C is 40 meters. 20 m plus 20 m equals 40 m.
A bigger hole puts more water in the stream. Increased flow moves more earth materials, increasing erosion. A steeper slope makes the water flow faster. Faster flow moves more earth materials, increasing erosion.
If the effort is applied farther from the fulcrum, less effort will lift the load.
You have to pull up in this system. In the single fixed pulley system, you get a directional advantage.
The brass ring would not stick to the nail because the ring is not iron. The nail is a temporary magnet, but brass cannot become a temporary magnet and thus does not stick to magnets.
The dissolved salt particles are small enough to go through the holes in the filter paper, but the sand particles are too large
A solution is a mixture formed when a solid dissolves in a liquid
The solid dissolves (seems to disappear) and the liquid remains clear
Emily's crystals are the same shape as the alum crystals shown on the key.
The particles of the solid are too big to go through the holes in the paper filter
Yes. If both solutions are saturated (and at the same temperature), the solutions will both have the same concentration. Once a solution is saturated, the solution cannot get any more concentrated.
The solutions have the same concentration (2 spoons in 50 milliliters is the same as 4 spoons in 100 milliliters) so the mass would also be the same
Both solutions are saturated (as indicated by the material on the bottom) so, even though one cup has more spoonfuls of sugar, both have the same (maximum) concentration
Bubbling means a gas has formed. Gas is a new material. A new material indicates a reaction.
A chemical reaction occurred. [The white solid is a precipitate (a new material) which indicates the reaction.]
The fizzing indicates a gas, a new material, is produced. When a new material is produced, a chemical reaction has occurred.
A solution was created when the eggshells disappeared (dissolved) and the mixture ended up as a clear liquid.
A reaction was indicated by the bubbles of gas (a new material) being produced.
Yes, they could both be correct. Solubility is not the same for all materials
The mixtures are all clear.
The concentrations are the same because both mixtures are saturated.
Set up evaporation dishes. The water will go into the air (evaporate) and the solid will be left in the dish (crystallize)
Jim would see a clear solution. 3 spoons of solid dissolves, so 2 spoons will dissolve
X. When equal amounts of 2 solutions are compared, the solution that is more concentrated will have the greater mass (weigh more). 50 milliliters of X has a greater mass than 50 milliliters of Y, so X must be more concentrated
Crystals of different materials have different shapes. So the shape will help identify the material.